#### In this issue

* Abbreviated issue
* Report from Linaro Connect
* NATS Docker multiarch release
* Using CentOS 7 armhfp VM on CentOS 7 aarch64

### Abbreviated issue

Your editor is travelling this week, so this issue is sent out
on West Coast time and is shorter than normal. 

### Report from Linaro Connect

Linaro Connect (#SFO17) was held near San Francisco Airport 
September 25-29, 2017. Aaron Welch and Ed Vielmetti from Packet
were in attendance. This is a major meeting place between Linaro,
Arm, and their partners and members, so it was a great place to
meet people and catch up and see new things.

Some of the many highlights of the event:

Peter Robinson (@nullr0ute) talked to me about his efforts to
get Fedora running on dozens of single board Arm computers of
various shapes and sizes.

The Socionext 24-core desktop Arm computer was up and running,
with Fumitaka "Fred" Shirashi and Shuichi Yamane there demoing it.

Dr. Yang Zhang, director of 96Boards, talked about
plans for future Arm hardware to get into the hands of developers.

Nicolas "Charbax" Charbonnier was there doing video interviews
with many participants, and we sat down and talked about the
Works on Arm project.

My colleague Aaron Welch gave a keynote address on what
the Internet might be like in 10 years.

* https://youtu.be/Ksegw928gUM?t=31m42s - Aaron Welch keynote
* http://connect.linaro.org

### NATS Docker multiarch release

NATS is a high speed message queueing system written in Go;
it serves some of the same purpose that Apache Kafka or an
MQTT broker like Mosquitto has in a distributed system.

NATS 1.0.4 is now available, and the release includes Docker
multiarch packaging, with support for architectures including
32-bit and 64-bit Arm processors as well as both Linux
and Windows on Intel processors.

Thanks to Tianon Gravi and Ivan Kozlovic for the multiarch
expertise and for the packaging support.

* https://github.com/nats-io/nats-docker/issues/12
* http://nats.io/
* https://hub.docker.com/r/library/nats

### Using CentOS 7 armhfp VM on CentOS 7 aarch64

CentOS developers who are have access to fast arm64 hardware
can boot the armhfp version of CentOS under kvm and Qemu.
Details are provided by Fabian Arrotin, who writes:

> Recently we got our hands on some aarch64 (aka ARMv8 / 
64Bits) nodes running in a remote DC.  On my (already too long) 
TODO/TOTEST list I had the idea of testing armhfp VM on top of 
aarch64. Reason is that when I need to test our packages, 
using my own Cubietruck or RaspberryPi3 is time consuming : 
removing the sdcard, reflashing with the correct CentOS 7 
image and booting/testing the pkg/update/etc ...

> So is that possible to just automate this through 
available aarch64 node as hypervisor ? Sure ! and it's 
just pretty straightforward if you have already played with libvirt.

Fabian reports that he now has this automated with Ansible.

* https://www.arrfab.net/posts/2019/Sep/29/using-centos-7-armhfp-vm-on-centos-7-aarch64/
