---
title: Works on Arm News for 2018-W37
---

* Operating systems, kernels, and virtualization
* Cloud Native with Kubernetes and containers
* Telco and networking
* Edge computing
* Languages, libraries, and functions
* Optimization, portability, diversity and variety
* CI/CD and build services

The Works on Arm project has an ambitious scope to
enable open source software on 64-bit Arm systems.
This special edition of Works on Arm news recaps the
overall mission and goals of the effort, and is 
prepared to accompany a presentation to be given
at Linaro Connect 2018 in Vancouver, BC.

Works on Arm provides hardware and infrastructure
resources to projects that are supporting 64-bit
Arm (arm64 or aarch64) architectures. We focus on 
projects that have a maximum enabling impact on
the ecosystem and like to take on ambitious efforts.

This is a brief rundown of project focus for the
seven functional areas noted above. Most projects
will slot into two or more areas of interest.

### Operating systems, kernels, and virtualization

We seek out projects that look to build complete
operating systems on arm64, and support them with
bare metal resources. The effort includes resources
for running the latest Linux kernel. Packet bare
metal hardware boots with iPXE and supports both
preconfigured and custom installations. To date
we have collaborated with Ubuntu, Debian, Red Hat,
CentOS, Fedora, SUSE, OpenSUSE, Alpine, NixOS, FreeBSD, 
and other efforts.

Effective virtualization of bare metal systems
requires access to hardware, and Works on Arm
has collaborated with the QEMU and KVM project
teams to enable their efforts.

A popular system for providing virtual machines
through a familiar interface is OpenStack, and
Packet has worked with the OpenStack Foundation
extensively to provide test and CI infrastructure
and to support future production installations.

### Cloud Native with Kubernetes and containers

Cloud Native computing focuses on the container
abstraction originally implemented by Docker and
the scheduling layer of Kubernetes originally developed
by Google. The initial deployments of Kubernetes were all
targeted at x86 systems, but the popularity of
clusters of single-board arm64 computing resources
to build test and educational cluster systems has
helped drive interest in a full 64-bit Arm deployment
of Kubernetes. 

The Cloud Native stack is often programmed in Google's
"Go" language (golang), and the Works on Arm project
has provided resources and expertise to identify
portability and performance improvements needed to
put arm64 software in this stack on an equal footing
with other platforms.

Kubernetes at version 1.12 will have full arm64 capabilities.
The next heavy lift is to port all packages in its
Helm package manager to multiarchitecture support.
This will entail investment in CI and build tooling
to help package developers bring their work to support
all systems. Packet has made an investment in one
key networking tool (Project Calico) to enable multiarchitecture
support for the variety of tools that make up that project.

### Telco and networking

The telco and networking stack encompasses several
large projects that look to bring virtualization of
network functions to routing and swtiching facilities
at the core and at the edge of the network. 

Some of the largest of these projects are programmed
in Java, and it is this use of Java that has prompted
a Works on Arm investment in both the core language
(through work with Adopt OpenJDK) and in understanding
what can at times be deep dependencies on Java
library functions. 

Packet provides hardware to Works on Arm including
high performance Mellanox NICs. We look forward in
the future to additional smart NIC support, some of
which have 64-bit Arm processors on board to further
accelerate network functions.

### Edge computing

Deployment of substantial computing resources at the
edge of the network is a counterbalancing force to the
centralized compute model that hyperscale processors
have followed. Flexible computing works
in the edge of the net, whether that be a home computing
cluster, a micro data center at the base of a cell tower,
or internet-of-things code embedded in objects.

The programming tools used in edge compute are
characteristically diverse, with programming
models often taking advantage of domain specific
libraries and languages that work closely with
the available hardware. 

Work on edge computing applications motivates language
and library support and development across systems
like Python and Node.JS which provide flexible 
development environments combined with function
integration with high performance C and C++ libraries
tuned for performance.

### Languages, libraries, and functions

Support for a wide variety of languages, and the
libraries and functions built up from those languages,
has been core to the Works on Arm project. We have
invested in C and C++ (via LLVM and gcc) as well as
providing core support for Go (golang), Node.JS 
(Javascript), and additionally scientific languages
like Julia. We have collaborated with efforts to
investigate the large function libraries provided 
by Java, Python, and Node.JS and to scope out those
codebases for portability to arm64.

In turn, these function libraries provide
a rich environment for function-as-a-service
systems like OpenFaaS, Node-RED, and OpenWhisk to enable
rapid deployment of relatively complex code in
a greatly simplified environment.

Support for the biggest language families like LLVM
can be complex because there are lots of independent
projects underway in parallel that each address some
aspect of the system as a whole. The CI requirements
for such efforts will easily chew up as many machines
as you can provide.

### Optimization, portability, diversity and variety

Work on languages follows three major patterns. For
core languages, we seek **optimization** both of the
language itself as well as the extensive library
support that mature languages provide. Languages
and functions that are not as mature on arm64 require
careful and thoughtful work to **portability**, especially
of large code bases with libraries that are stable
and resistant to change. Finally, we always seek
out **diversity and variety**, especially when it
comes to domain specific languages that provide
an outsized benefit to solving problems within
their narrow range of focus.

### CI/CD and build services

Build systems are where the ideals of portability
and multi-architecture support meet the reality of
needing to test every change on every branch on
every architecture, and to build a complete set of
artifacts in an easy to consume format when the
code is ready to ship.

Traditional build systems like Jenkins, buildbot,
Bazel, OBS, and a host of others depend on access to
fast compute for building and a plethora of lightweight
virtual machines for testing. We are actively working
across all of the largest projects that use Works
on Arm resources to find build systems that are both
effective in doing tests as well as efficient in 
system utilization.

The newer crop of CI-as-a-service vendors have taken
to Works on Arm to expand their CI efforts to encompass
arm64 as well as 32-bit Arm builds. Tools like Shippable,
Codefresh, Drone, Resin, and others abstract out the
CI space into a simple configuration file that can be
incorporated into the project repository to drive testing
and builds. In addition, some newer source code management
systems like Gitlab incorporate CI into their mainline product.

More than anything else, we look to CI/CD to drive
growth in the Works on Arm cluster.

### Conclusions

Projects approach the Works on Arm program from a variety
of perspectives. We take on tasks that originate internal
to Arm and Linaro and from a wide variety of community
supported and commercially supported efforts. Project
maturity in terms of CI and build infrastructure ranges
widely, and some projects are much larger than others.

The 2017-2018 program year provided us primarily with
two hardware platforms for development. A Cavium ThunderX
based system has been our workhorse for most efforts, and
a much smaller number of Hisilicon Hi1616 based systems
have been popular for their 32-bit capabilities.

For 2018-2019, we look to expand capacity and provide it
in both larger and smaller units. For efforts that don't need a
full machine 24x7 we look to expand out our hosted CI/CD
and our virtual machine capacity through OpenStack resources.
We also look to add to the diversity of the hardware provided
by Works on Arm to additional vendor equipment, to
better support diverse workloads, ensure portability
of efforts, and take advantage of the latest fast gear.

The arm64 ecosystem is very rich, and inevitably some
aspects of it that are important are missing from this
overview. We continue to work on optimization, portability,
and diversity and variety of our support of that ecosystem,
and welcome your active engagement in the process.



