---
week: 2018-W32
ticket: 111
issue: 64
title: Works on Arm News
author: Ed Vielmetti, Packet
editor: Zoë Allen, Packet
---
Welcome to Works on Arm News for Friday, August 10, 2018. 
This newsletter is announced via the @worksonarm 
social media accounts and the #worksonarm channels, typically
on Fridays. It is then published at http://worksonarm.com/blog, 
and distributed by electronic mail generally on Mondays. 

Subscribe at https://www.worksonarm.com/ !

Your editorial team:

* Ed Vielmetti, Packet: special projects director
* Zoë Allen, Packet: marketing coordinator

The Arm Architecture HPC Workshop on 
Thursday, July 26, 2018 was held at Huawei in Santa Clara, CA  
and organized by Linaro and sponsored by Arm. 
This week’s Issue 64 newsletter features a trip report from that workshop.

Packet and Works on Arm will be represented at the Open Source Summit North
America in Vancouver, BC, Canada on (date).

SWAG!!! If you would like any Works on Arm swag - stickers etc - please 
contact help@packet.net with the word "Swag" and we'll take care
of you. Let us know if you're willing and able to be a distribution point
for companies, licensees, conferences, workshops, meetings etc. SWAG!!!

## Arm Architecture HPC Workshop, Santa Clara, CA

The Arm Architecture HPC Workshop by Linaro and HiSilicon 
was held on July 26, 2018 on the Huawei campus in Santa Clara, CA.
The workshop looked at the Arm-powered supercomputing future and
helped prepare software and hardware people for upcoming
opportunities. Leading Arm vendors, end users, and open source
developers from the Bay area and around the world came together
to discuss software, hardware, projects, and the latest products and product
plans.

The event website at https://www.linaro.org/latest/events/arm-hpc-santa-clara-2018/
contains a full agenda and some of the presentations. 

## Isambard: the world's first production Arm-based supercomputer	

## Vanguard Astra: Petascale Arm Platform for U.S. DOE/ASC Supercomputing

## Post-K and Arm HPC Ecosystem: RIKEN and Fujitsu, (city name) Japan

## HPC network stack on Arm

## SUSE enablement for Arm (Jay Kruemcke)

## Huawei’s requirements for the ARM based HPC solution readiness	(name)


