---
title: 2017-W44 Works on Arm News
---

#### In this issue

* Macom sells X-Gene CPU business to "Project Denver Holdings"
* ARM in HPC at Supercomputing 17 (SC17)
* Kubernetes + Hyper + runv + OpenFaaS
* Go release (golang) 1.9.2 and 1.8.5
* Beta release for SUSE Linux Enterprise 15 (SLES15)
* Nathan Goulding at NYC meetup "Site Reliability Engineering"
* Hypriot release supports cloud-init

### Macom sells X-Gene CPU business to "Project Denver Holdings"

The X-Gene Arm procesor is now in the hands of "Project Denver Holdings",
a hedge fund backed new organization that acquired the intellectual
property from Macom. X-Gene originally came from Applied Micro Devices.

Not much is known about "Project Denver Holdings" except the name, which
curiously shares some words with "Project Denver" from NVidia but no
known ties beyond that at this point. 

From Anandtech:

> The X-Gene 3 server platform looked promising when it was introduced
last November. The CPU has 32 custom ARMv8 cores running at up to
3 GHz, with 32 MB of L3 cache, eight DDR4-2667 memory channels with
ECC, and 42 PCIe 3.0 lanes. MACOM started to sample the X-Gene 3
among interested parties this March and Kontron even demonstrated
a server based on the CPU at MWC 2017. MACOM has not started
commercial shipments of the X-Gene 3 yet, nonetheless the X-Gene 3
and its possible successors were impressive enough for The Carlyle
Group to establish a new entity that will finalize the X-Gene 3 and
continue development efforts.

* https://www.anandtech.com/show/11978/macom-sells-off-appliedmicros-xgene-cpu-business
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Denver

### ARM in HPC at Supercomputing 17 (SC17)

The Supercomputing 17 (SC17) conference in Denver, Colorado is
November 12-17, dubbed as "The International Conference for High
Performance Computing, Networking, Storage and Analysis". It
features a panel session, 
"The ARM Software Ecosystem: Are We There Yet?", led by NVidia's
Chris J. Newburn. Panelists will discuss the state of the Arm 
ecosystem for high-performance computing (HPC) software.

> It appears that ARM deployments are picking up steam in the HPC
and Big Data spaces. But what are the conditions for real business
impact with ARM in those spaces, and when will they be met? Is it
time to jump in, or are the ingredients for success still coming
together? This panel takes a critical look at system plans, existing
and future deployments. It explores efforts to evaluate software
ecosystem dependences and to promote application readiness. It
highlights technical challenges and remaining opens in that space.
Providers of infrastructure, practitioners and end users share
experiences, aspirations and concerns about how the ARM SW ecosystem
is ripening. The audience can expect to be educated about substantive
progress, key gaps and who’s working to close them, areas where
there’s a lack of consensus and where data is being gathered to
come to greater agreement.

* https://community.arm.com/processors/b/blog/posts/sc17-ready-to-deploy-for-hpc
* https://sc17.supercomputing.org/presentation/?id=pan104&sess=sess246

### Kubernetes + Hyper + runv + OpenFaaS

Harry Zhang (@resouer) has a tutorial on bringing up 
Kubernetes, Hyper, runV, and OpenFaaS to build a serverless
platform for compute. The tutorial runs on Packet's
arm64 servers and walks the user through the process step by step.


```
Step 0: Glossary
Kubernetes: everyone knows this :)
OpenFaaS: an awesome Serverless framework.
runV: a hypervisor based OCI container runtime [1].
hyperd: a API daemon for runV.
kubernetes/frakti: Kubernetes CRI runtime shim for runV.
```

Frakti is the hypervisor-based container runtime for Kubernetes.
Frakti 1.1.1 now is released with arm64 support, and a binary
available as of October 27, 2017; this binary support simplifies
the installation considerably.

> Frakti lets Kubernetes run pods and containers directly inside
hypervisors via HyperContainer. It is light weighted and portable,
but can provide much stronger isolation with independent kernel
than linux-namespace-based container runtimes.

* https://medium.com/@resouer/kubernetes-openfaas-runv-arm64-packet-net-ea4c7b61c88f
* https://github.com/kubernetes/frakti/releases/tag/v1.1.1

### Go release (golang) 1.9.2 and 1.8.5

The Go computer language (golang) has made a point release of
Go to fix some minor issues. Of note for arm64 users is a new
binary release of the 1.8.5 for arm64; this is the first
arm64 release in the 1.8 series, and this should advance the
ability of people depending on packages (like Docker) that 
depend on back revision versions of Go to integrate this into
their build environment.

* https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/golang-nuts/s8EXcSSJ5cg

### Beta release for SUSE Linux Enterprise 15 (SLES15)

SUSE Linux Enterprise 15 is now in beta release.

> SUSE Linux Enterprise 15 Beta will be our new major release
designed for IT Transformation! SLE 15 is developed with both
“Traditional Infrastructure” and “Software-Defined Infrastructure”
in mind, thus significant and major changes from the previous SUSE
Linux Enterprise 12 are made to address both world in a more elegant
and simpler way.

Peter Czanik of Balabit writes:

> Installed @SUSE #SLES 15 beta on a @SoftIronNews #Aarch64 box.
Works perfectly: I couldn't catch any extra bugs compared to x86!
@worksonarm

* https://twitter.com/PCzanik/status/925423255195971586
* https://www.suse.com/communities/blog/suse-linux-enterprise-15-beta-1-available/
* https://www.suse.com/betaprogram/sle-beta/

### Nathan Goulding at NYC meetup "Site Reliability Engineering"

Packet's Nathan Goulding will be speaking at the Wednesday, September 8
2017 meeting of "Site Reliability Engineering NYC" at Squarespace.

> Lessons learned and practical guidance while attempting to automate
the provisioning of a wide array of operating systems onto heterogeneous
and globally distributed bare metal infrastructure—with 100% success,
for one day.

* https://www.meetup.com/Site-Reliability-Engineering-NYC/events/244342182/

### Hypriot release supports cloud-init

Hypriot and Dieter Reuter have released a new version of their
64-bit operating system for the Raspberry Pi 3. This release 
includes support for cloud-init, which allows for automation
of the setup and initialization of the Pi from a single configuration
file. 
 
Tom Anderson writes:

> In the “cloud world”, you spin up instances, give it some
user-data, then when it boots, the machines self-configures based
on the instance meta-data and the user-data provided.

The example provided brings up the NextCloud service, using a Docker
container for the service, and Portainer as a management system.

* https://blog.hypriot.com/post/cloud-init-cloud-on-hypriot-x64/
* https://github.com/DieterReuter/image-builder-rpi64/releases/tag/v20171031-155659
